---
icon: angles-right
---

# Outrun

Outrun is committed to becoming a pioneer in the next generation of DeFi and Web3 industries. **Through innovative yield tokenization, fair launch models, and sustainable Memecoin development, it aims to unlock higher, more flexible, and safer DeFi yields and Memecoin participation opportunities for users**. The Outrun ecosystem currently consists of four major modules: OutStake, OutSwap, FFLaunch, and Memeverse, covering **yield tokenization**, **liquid staking derivatives**, **decentralized exchanges**, **next-generation token financing paradigms**, and **the integration of Memecoin × DeFi × DAO‌**.

* **OutStake** is a protocol built entirely around **yield-bearing tokens**, introducing a new type of **non-USD stablecoin** model that is tied to the yield rate. This protocol employs an innovative economic model that, compared to other yield token protocols in the market (such as Pendle), offers **greater flexibility and composability**, providing **higher returns and multiple sources of income**. The assets supported by OutStake form the foundational support for the Outrun ecosystem, offering a stable base for the entire ecosystem.
* **OutSwap**'s first version, known as **Outrun AMM**, is built on the **classic AMM** model and includes several innovative improvements. The most significant of these is the built-in **on-chain referral commission engine**, which offers real-time settlements. Users can refer others to use the Outrun AMM to earn commissions, and the on-chain referral commission engine is highly composable. Anyone can develop their own referral services based on the Outrun AMM to direct liquidity and earn commissions. In addition, it integrates the first native **on-chain anti-MEV module - MEV Guard,** which does not require the introduction of external systems and operates entirely independently on-chain.
* **FFLaunch** is the first "**Risk-Free**" LaunchPad that sets a new standard for **fair and free** launches, representing a **truly community-driven** fundraising paradigm. Investors can receive project tokens for **free** by locking the [UPT](outstake/yield-tokenization/pt.md) tokens minted based on yield-bearing tokens through staking to establish liquidity. Meanwhile, project teams can raise funds from **liquidity provider fees** during the lock-up period. FFLaunch offers open interfaces to support custom launch logic that does not violate the principles of fairness and free access. This model is more **equitable and investor-friendly**, while also enabling project teams to raise sufficient funds.
* **Memeverse** is a **OmniChain** memecoin **launchpad** built on the concept of **FFLaunch**, featuring **memecoin staking** and **memecoin DAO governance**. Compared to FFLaunch, Memeverse has no entry barriers. It has removed the customizable token generator interface and instead uses a universal token template to create memecoins. Users can deploy across all chains with just a few clicks via the website UI, without needing any programming knowledge. For each memecoin, a corresponding **Memecoin Yield Vault** and **Memecoin DAO Treasury** are deployed on its **governance chain**. Users can stake memecoins into the yield vault to earn rewards, which come from **the memecoin portion of the market-making profits of the locked genesis liquidity** and other potential revenues. **The UPT portion of the market-making profits from the locked genesis liquidity** goes to the Memecoin DAO Treasury to support the decentralized operations of the memecoin community. Community members participate in governance by staking memecoins to **control the use of treasury revenues**.

These products are not independent of each other, they complement and closely intertwine in functionality, linking **yield tokenization**, **liquidity staking derivatives**, **decentralized exchanges**, **next-generation token financing paradigm**, and **Memecoin × DeFi × DAO‌**. Through their design and **interoperability**, they construct a **complete closed-loop** Outrun ecosystem, providing users with diverse DeFi and Web3 experiences.
