# Yield Token (YT)

**YT** represents the right to the yield of staked **native yield tokens**, obtained by staking **native yield tokens** and specifying a lock-up period. **YT** separates the native yield from the **native yield tokens**, allowing it to be traded on secondary markets and used to build other DeFi Lego components.

### **A true universal fungible YieldToken**

Unlike YieldTokens from other protocols in the market, which are either NFTs or special FTs (e.g., Pendle), **these are non-fungible**. This characteristic leads to a **lack of liquidity** for YieldTokens and **reduces the composability** of the protocol.

Outrun's **YT** is a **genuinely fungible token** **(FT),** offering **excellent liquidity and strong composability**. For every 1 **native yield token** staked for 1 day, 1 **YT** is minted. If 𝑥 **native yield tokens** is staked for 𝑦 days, 𝑥𝑦 **YT** will be minted. Therefore, theoretically, 1 **YT** is anchored to the native yield generated by staking 1 **native yield token**for 1 day.

**YT** can be freely traded and can be instantly destroyed and redeemed for the accumulated native yield in the **YieldPool** without restrictions. When destroyed, the native yield generated is redeemed proportionally based on the number of **YT** destroyed compared to the total **YT** supply.

### The Stability Mechanism of **YT**&#x20;

**YT** is also a **non-USD algorithmic stablecoin** pegged to the **native yield rate**. Theoretically, one **YT** represents the native yield produced by one **native yield token** over one day. Since **YT** is linked to the **native yield rate** and minted through the staking of **native yield tokens**, it differs from early algorithmic stablecoins like **Luna**. The value system of **YT** is a closed system, ensuring that **a price death spiral will never occur**.

Initially, the redeemable value of **YT** (the native yield that can be redeemed by destroying **YT** ) will gradually increase over time from the point when the first **YT** is minted, theoretically ceasing to grow once it reaches its theoretical value cap. Burning **YT** will redeem native yield proportionally, so it does not affect its redeemable value. The redeemable value of **YT** will only decrease **when new YT** **is minted**, and the decrease will be **reaccumulated** in the future (due to the staking of new **native yield tokens**).

However, in practice, some users may burn **YT** before the lock-up period of their staked **native yield token** expires, leading to a reduction in **YT**’s circulation while native yield continues to accumulate in the **YieldPool**. This can eventually cause **YT**’s **redeemable value to exceed its theoretical value cap**, resulting in two possible outcomes:

1. **Arbitrage Opportunities:** When the market price of **PT** is higher than the native yield token, users can stake more **native yield tokens** to mint new **YT** and immediately burn them to complete the arbitrage. However, this will provide more fuel for the next value breakthrough.
2. **Increased Yield for Long-Term Stakers:** As **YT** can redeem more yield, long-term stakers benefit from higher returns. Additionally, influenced by arbitrageurs, the market price of **PT** may slightly decrease (But the circulation of **PT** is already lower than the staked amount and is influenced by **FFLaunch** and **Memeverse**).

Thus, the process of **YT**’s redeemable value surpassing its theoretical value ceiling will **continually recur**, creating a **growth flywheel** and attracting **more staking volume**. The economic model built around **YT** will bring additional opportunities to the Outrun ecosystem.

### Broader prospects

**YT** is not only a tool for helping long-term stakers earn more yield but also a **truly fungible, universal yield token**. Additionally, it represents Web3's first **decentralized algorithmic stablecoin** anchored to **native yield rates**. In the competitive market, **YT** remains connected to these **native yield rates**. Looking ahead, Outrun will utilize **YT**’s unique features and community to develop even more **innovative products**.
