---
icon: piggy-bank
---

# OutStake

**OutStake** is a protocol entirely built around **yield-bearing assets (LSTs , yield-bearing stablecoins, RWA, and so on)**, introducing the first token model tied to **yields rates**. Compared to other yield token protocols in the market, such as **Pendle**, OutStake offers **greater flexibility, enhanced composability**, and provides **higher returns along with multiple sources of income**. The assets supported by OutStake form the foundational support for the Outrun ecosystem, providing a stable base for the entire system. Specifically, OutStake operates as follows:

1. **A novel staking model based on yield-bearing tokens**: Through OutStake, it controls the yields generated by its yield-bearing tokens and unlocks the liquidity of its staked assets, allowing them to be used in a range of DeFi applications. It adopts a completely new design different from the market, enabling users to mint PT/YT tokens with an **perpetual lifecycle**, which offers stronger **composability and flexibility**.
2. **Yield Rate Token (YT)**: The value of the Yield Token is directly correlated with the yieldrate of the yield-bearing asset, fluctuating around the asset's yield rate but gradually exceeding it over the long term. The economic model built around it provides stakers with higher income and multiple revenue streams. It is highly composable, enabling developers to create new products around it, thereby enriching the Outrun ecosystem‌.
3. **Omnichain Universal Principal Token (UPT)**: **UPT** is an innovative, **omnichain universal principal token** backed by multiple yield-bearing tokens that share the same underlying asset. This design **allows liquidity to be shared across different yield-bearing tokens of the same accounting asset**. It's also a crucial component of the Outrun ecosystem – an **omnichain stablecoin**. UPT aims to be a cornerstone in the DeFi space, demonstrating exceptional stability in cross-chain transfers and DeFi composability. This makes it an efficient, low-volatility medium for value transfer and settlement, significantly boosting the capital efficiency and composability of the entire Outrun ecosystem.
4. **Staking Position (SP)**: This token represents the right to **redeem locked staking positions upon maturity**, created by encapsulating the already minted PT (UPT) into a transferable SP token. Since SP holders can redeem the principal portion of the corresponding position after maturity, different fixed yield rates are formed based on the market price of SP at various points in time. Holding SP allows investors to earn fixed yield income based on the underlying asset‌.
